we need to talk about this device here
the rabbit R1 now this isn't going to be
some kind of like technical review of
this device uh it's more of just a kind
of early impressions of it but the
reason why I don't want to do a review
on it is because like the Humane AI pin
this thing is just so underbaked the R1
feels like it's missing so many features
that were not necessarily promised but
so many features that would make this
product what it's supposed to be that at
this point I just feel like this product
is not in a reviewable state so what
does the R1 do it's a hardware AI
assistant but it can eventually learn
through its large action model but this
instead of being an app is a $200 piece
of Hardware so it comes in this plastic
case it's actually a pretty nice case
it's got this like
silicone uh rubber lining to it to kind
of keep it protected when it's in the
box but the product feels like you would
expect a $200 piece of tech to feel it
doesn't not feel premium in any shape
way or form uh it is you know it's a lot
of plastic not that there's anything
wrong with it but it feels like you
would expect a $200 device too now the
screen it's pretty mediocre the speaker
pretty mediocre the camera's interesting
it's got this like motorized action to
it so when you activate it it flips
upwards and then when you're done with
it it flips back uh but the scroll wheel
is where I want to draw your attention
to because I think the scroll wheel
is not good now aesthetically and just
visually the scroll wheel is neat I
think that scroll wheel on Tech is so
rare that it kind of makes it iconic on
this product and it's also very teenage
engineering it's because they love these
infinite encoders that you can spend
forever and ever they're kind of neat so
visually awesome however you might be
asking what does the scroll wheel do
okay let me show you so the way that you
interact with this device is using this
scroll wheel and you can
scroll through the menus now the audio
you're hearing is just coming from the
speakers it's not like a mechanical
click or anything like that it's also
there's it's a stepless encoder like
there's no notches or anything it just
spins infinitely uh and it's kind of
cool for the first day or two I was like
this is cool I like the analog Vibe of
this thing it feels neat it feels fun
right but then you're trying to use this
thing for real things and not just
playing around it's very frustrating to
navigate menus with a scroll wheel
exclusively because they don't allow you
to touch it's got a touch screen it's
got a digitizer I'll show you real quick
it's like um get out of
here if you go into the terminal you can
tap away on a keyboard clearly there's a
touchcreen it's got a very weak motor if
I might add that but uh when you're in
the settings menu or if you're doing any
kind of like option stuff and you're
just trying to like use
your finger to tap at things you can't
they lock you out so my question was in
my brain why why don't they just give me
access to tapping and I think the main
reason why they do this is because if
they gave people full access to their UI
and settings with tap no one would use
the scroll wheel this would just be a
Superfluous useless thing but by making
you by forcing you to use the scroll
wheel now you're scrolling the other
thing I found really annoying with the
scroll wheel is that you would think
with the scroll wheel that you could at
the very least adjust the volume in real
time like as an example if you are using
your device and you're like I don't know
what's the weather like today and
searching it's you want to adjust the
volume you would want to like tweak it
the weather for for can't this is
actually a great example I want it to
stop right but the way you do is you
have to click the side button hold on to
it and using your other hand you don't
have to adjust the volume I mean maybe
you could configure it so you could kind
of do it
one-handed no it's a two-hand operation
you got to click it then you got to roll
up and now you've adjusted the
volume why why like what is the purpose
of this just so you can have you like
hey our squirrel wheel is actually you
useful I want to just tap stuff dude
just
get rid of the scroll wheel so if I had
to redesign this thing this is what I
would do first I'd get rid of the scroll
wheel completely it's cute but it's just
not useful enough to me and then now
probably just move the camera on top of
the bezel there's a little bit of room
there and then maybe add some Hardware
volume buttons it is a speech based
device and you might as well extend the
screen because you know you got a little
bit of room down there and oh look it's
a phone like the thing you already have
in your pocket and the more I interact
with this device the more I'm like 100
,000% this should be an app and anyone
who says otherwise like there's I keep
seeing in the comments about this reason
that reason no like just no the reason
why this is not an app I already
discussed this in a video but it's a
little bit long-winded you watch it if
you really care but they can't make this
an app and even if they could they
wouldn't want to make it an app like
Humane and rabbit they wouldn't want to
make it an app because it's not
profitable okay as I interacted with
both these devices over the past couple
of weeks another thing that's come to my
mind it's a completely separate
conversation
is how did we get to this stage where
reviewers are being sent devices that
are so incredibly underbaked like these
are just not ready for the consumer like
I don't think these are ready for like
early adopters who are willing to just
beta test and play with Early Access
Hardware like it just it's so raw right
now that it just does not make sense and
like put it this way the battery of this
device probably lasts
an hour and a half granted I spoke with
the CEO Jesse who saying that there's
going to be some kind of uh firmware
update in a couple days that should help
with it I imagine it would be these
things aren't supposed to last an hour
and a half but the fact that it's
launched there are people out there who
paid money for this device and it's
lasting really short it's just it
shouldn't be in this state same with the
Humane AI pin there's so much stuff that
was missing and just not functional
right out of the gate the large action
model I'm not even going to detail it in
this video but if you were expecting to
pick up one of these things and being
able to do the things that they
demonstrated in their demo when they
showed the lamb keep dreaming dude it's
not going to happen uh but that's just
the nature of this whole product
category right now these Hardware AI
devices and it's like what is going on
and I thought about it I'm like okay the
only reason that I can come up with is
this and because they had they
technically have time right why not just
wait a couple months put it out I'll
tell you why
Google IO is in 3 weeks time Apple's
WWDC I think is in like six weeks Time s
weeks time those things are just around
the corner and the moment Google and
apple put out their versions of like AI
based assistants that are hardwired like
baked right onto the iOS or Android it's
a completely good different conversation
for rabbit and Humane they no longer
have these like new interesting things
they just have these
like Derpy pieces of Hardware that
ostensibly shouldn't even exist
now I'm not saying that these things
suck and will suck forever I I hope
that's not the message that's coming
across here what I am trying to say is
that in their current form these things
are so not even ready to be shown to
people publicly let alone being sent to
reviewers and being reviewed I actually
think that this product the R1 didn't
even have a review program maybe that's
a a sign of what this product really is
but they didn't have a review program it
just like a bunch of media got some
units and if you want to make a video go
for it that's really what it was uh so
yeah I think the hardware is neat I got
to be honest
but it's I don't think that this is the
the future of what this technology is
supposed to be one other thing that I
thought was interesting now that I uh uh
now that I've kind of reach the end of
this
piece as I was using these devices I
thought okay you know how we have like a
bunch of llms the most popular ones
probably Chad gbt uh Perle is the thing
that's running on here but like there's
a bunch of AI services that are popular
and good and these things are powerful
right they're free they're very fun to
use and when you use them they're like
wow these things can do a lot of stuff
but the the usefulness of them is very
limited because you cannot just attached
chat GPT or like an llm directly like
hard baked into your phone right you
can't have access to like your I don't
know your contacts your emails your text
messages your credit card info like if
chat GPT could access all of that stuff
it'd be scary right but if it was safe
but if it could access all that stuff
the utility of these llms would be
amazing like you could do a lot of stuff
they could be very powerful assistance
to your life the thing is
I don't think Apple and/or Google will
ever allow third-party llms to just be
able to connect to their ecosystems to
that degree and I've always thought chat
GPT like open ai's product is so far
ahead of the curve that like it's kind
of strange that Google especially Apple
didn't just kind of come up with their
own version of the stuff and just
publicly launch it and announce it so
much earlier but I realized that because
Apple and Google hold the key to their
ecos systems respectively they control
this like they control how much access
chat GPT will ever have to their user
base and so the moment Apple launches or
Google launches their versions of these
things and those things are hardwired
into the the OS
itself those could those could be so
much more useful and so much more
powerful than these third party llms so
the point I'm trying to make is
that I could see in the very near future
Google and or Apple's version of these
types of products outperforming is
becoming way more popular than chat GPT
is just because they have access to all
that stuff on your phone and they can
actually do really cool stuff because
that's fun as it is there's a limitation
as to how much people can use chat GPT
right now okay hope you guys enjoyed
this video